Release template file for Jira tickets (#44)
ansible-collections/cloud-content-handbook: Releases/generate_release_tickets.md

# **Generating Jira Tickets Using aap-jira-cli**

### **1. Install aap-jira-cli**

To generate Jira tickets for the release, you first need to install the `aap-jira-cli` tool. Follow the installation steps provided in the repository: [Install aap-jira-cli](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/ansible/pde/aap-jira-cli/-/blob/main/README.md)*

### **2. Edit the Release Template Vars**

Modify the [release template variables](release_jira_template.yml) as per your requirements before generating Jira tickets. Ensure the necessary details are updated in the vars file to match the release scope.

> ### **3. Generate Jira Tickets in [https://issues.redhat.com/](https://issues.redhat.com/)**

Reviewer: We should include instructions here for authentication using the Jira service account, and a note that we should not use PATs for production Jira.

Use the following command to generate Jira tickets:

```sh
 aap-jira-cli create-issues-from-template production cloud-content-release.yml \
 --template-vars-file <path to var file>/release_jira_template.yml \
 --jira-config-env "aca"
```

### **Command Breakdown:**

- `aap-jira-cli create-issues-from-template` → Initiates Jira issue creation.
    
- `production` → Specifies that the tickets will be created in the production environment of Jira ([https://issues.redhat.com/](https://issues.redhat.com/)).
    
- `cloud-content-release.yml` → Specifies the template to use. Location: [cloud-content release template](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/ansible/pde/aap-catalog/-/blob/main/src/aap_catalog/jira_templates/cloud-content-release.yml)*

- `--template-vars-file <path to vars file>/release_jira_template.yml` → Points to the variable file that defines the releases.
    
- `--jira-config-env "aca"` → Uses the Jira configuration environment for project.
    

### **Expected Output**

This command will:

- Create **one Epic**.
    

> - Generate **multiple User Stories** under that Epic based on the releases specified in the vars file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generate **multiple Tasks** under that Epic based on the releases specified in the vars file.
```

# **Generating Jira Tickets Using aap-jira-cli**

### **1. Install aap-jira-cli**

To generate Jira tickets for the release, you first need to install the `aap-jira-cli` tool. Follow the installation steps provided in the repository: [Install aap-jira-cli](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/ansible/pde/aap-jira-cli/-/blob/main/README.md)*

### **2. Edit the Release Template Vars**

Modify the [release template variables](release_jira_template.yml) as per your requirements before generating Jira tickets. Ensure the necessary details are updated in the vars file to match the release scope.

### **3. Generate Jira Tickets in [https://issues.redhat.com/](https://issues.redhat.com/)**

Use the following command to generate Jira tickets:

> _note: Ensure authentication is done using the Jira service account. **Do not use PATs for production Jira**._

Reviewer 2: Can you please provide the PATs acronym extended name?

Reviewer: Could we also provide a little bit more info here, like what env variable to save the service account token to or however authentication is actually done in the jira cli tool?
